[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> The holistic world of healing
includes plants and herbs,
channeling energy as well as
both spiritual and physical
modalities.
Healers are
multidimensional beings,
who dance between the realms
of the seen and unseen.
These individuals
have the ability
to facilitate a shift in
people, offering them insight
and support, reconnecting people
with themselves and the greater
collective, healing the
world one person at a time,
healing from the other side.
>> Where do I even begin?
It's, kind of, like watching
someone stand there and take
a leap of faith,
watching them fly,
and then meeting
them in the sky.
It's the weirdest, weirdest
sensation because I start off,
kind of, feeling, you know,
kind of, average, kind of, OK.
But then I bowed in front
of the fire just before,
just to, like, put myself
in the right state,
and then screaming, ice cold,
ice cold, ice cold, ice cold,
and feeling that
energy and feeling
the people walk towards me.
And their eyes light up as
they don't feel the fire
beneath their feet.
And they're starting to get more
confident and more confident,
this beautiful, beautiful
moments of just feeling
someone's triumph over something
they thought was impossible.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> It's a metaphor
for conquering fear.
It's a metaphor for
conquering self.
breaking through.
By breaking through,
we say, OK, if I'm
able to walk across fire.
What else can I
possibly do in my life?
A firewalk is
essentially a practice
that's been done for many, many
years by many, many cultures,
and essentially, in its simplest
form, is walking across fire.
It's a concept where we want
to break through any fears
that we have, any
unsupportive beliefs
around our lives and
things that we want
to achieve within our life.
>> For someone
that's never done it,
the closest thing I can kind of
relate to that many people have
done is running a marathon.
Like, I ran a marathon
once in my life.
And since that day, whenever I
meet a challenging situation,
I know that I have done that.
So like, I can
handle most things.
And the fire is similar to that.
Once you've walked across
fire with bare feet,
then when challenges arise or
you battle with your thoughts
or whatever it is,
that's always something
you can take yourself back to.
And you know you can--
that you can conquer that.
>> There'd be people
walking tonight.
What's quite a beautiful
process is at the start of this,
we may be sitting
down, we'll say,
OK, so show of hands,
who's walked on fire?
And generally, you
find that people
in a room, generally,
95% are what
we love to call fire virgins.
And then we'll say, OK, so
who has an intention or plan
to actually walk this
evening, or say give us
a show of hands, and
generally, another 10%
of the people in the room
will put their hands up
and say, yes, we're ready.
We're going to be walking.
But generally, let's call it
85% of the people in the room
are not planning to walk.
And that's what we like
to see because we actually
say to people that
when you're thinking
of going through the process,
don't make the decision
to walk until you finally
step up to the fire
because we have all
these preconceived ideas,
maybe have had
incidents with fire,
negative memories of fire.
So we, kind of, think
that it's a bit mental.
Like, why would
anybody want to walk
across a beautifully hot fire?
So we say, rather,
let's run the process.
We get people thinking about
the physiology and the science
of fire and the human body.
I mean, the human body
is 70% to 75% water.
And in the same way, if you
had to take a plastic bottle,
fill it with water, put
it over an open flame,
that bottle is not going
to burn, not initially.
That water has to heat up.
And in the same way,
your body, if you
were going to stand on
fire long enough, then
maybe you would get-- you
would injure yourself.
But as a walk,
when you've raised
your vibrational frequency
and the energy's being raised,
then you're going to be
perfectly fine to walk.
It's important if
you're somebody
who's considering doing
a firewalk that you make
sure that you're working with
a correctly trained facilitator
who knows what they're doing.
Both Beatrix and
myself are trained
firewalking instructors.
We've been through
a process where
we understand how to prepare the
fire, how to prepare the wood,
how to select the
wood correctly,
and also how to take
people through a process
and put them into a
state where they are then
able and capable of
walking uninjured.
>> When people find out that
we are firewalking instructor
and we're having a brah, maybe,
then people will ask us, OK,
so can we take some
calls and we go brah.
So no, we cannot.
From the moment we start
working with the fire,
we set the intention for this
to be a cold, healing fire.
And while we're
building, while we're
working, while we're
talking to people,
this is the intention we set.
Then we add to
that that tonight,
we're going to be asking for
clear skies and gentle breezes.
And I can promise you, I've
seen this happen myself.
It can look like
it's going to rain.
And we start setting
the intention
for the clear skies, gentle
breezes, and things clear up.
So this is part of
the intention setting.
And when you do a firewalk
on a property like this
at Shambhala, you will find
that nature and everything in it
conspires to just
make it super special.
So we are really excited
about the walk tonight.
>> Elemental, ancient,
transformational,
fire is primal, one of
the powers of nature,
weaved into the shared
ancestry of humankind.
Across cultures, fire has
always carried significance.
And firewalking
has been practiced
for thousands of years as
a form of introspection
and spiritual release.
Today, firewalking instructors,
like Ceri and Beatrix,
use very specific techniques
to build the ideal fire
and to get you into a strong
physical and mental state
for the journey ahead.
>> The moment you start
working with the fire,
you have to put your best
intentions into the whole
process and into the wood
because this is a fire that
people are physically
literally going to walk on.
There are very specific types
of words that you can and cannot
use.
You cannot, for example,
use a wood with a lot of sap
because then, that wouldn't
be very good for walking on.
Over here at Shambhala,
we use protea wood,
which grows natively, burns
for about two to three hours.
So we have the wood
collected beforehand.
We start taking the wood.
And we start packing a fire.
They are different ways in
which you can pack a fire.
Tonight, we will
make a center fire.
We will create the coals.
And then when we are ready,
we start the fire lighting
ceremony.
>> So one of the things that
we do is we're not really a fan
of using gasoline or petrol
or anything like that
because it's rather dangerous.
If it's not used correctly,
you can injure yourself
as a facilitator.
So we prefer to use
sunflower cooking oil.
It's very light.
It takes a while to actually
get the wood to ignite.
And what it actually does
is it soaks into the wood.
So you have to work
a little bit harder
to actually get the
wood to take it.
But when it takes it,
it takes beautifully.
The workers are really taken
aback because it just gives us
this beautiful aroma and smell.
>> So my role is
the fire keeper.
So for me, that is a really nice
role because I love the fire.
I'm really connected
with the fire.
I will stand beside the
fire, come rain or storm,
which we said will not come.
And whatever
distractions there are,
my job is to have-- always
have my eyes on the fire.
We will make a really
big fire tonight.
And so what will happen
eventually, some of the wood
will start breaking as it burns.
And I will have to use
the different tools
that we have just to keep the
fire nice and tight together
to generate that
really lots of heat.
>> So we'd initiate both the
fire and then set it alight.
We also ask people to set an
intention as to why they're
going to walk, such as
like, we set an intention
why they want to walk.
So is it conquering fear?
Is it maybe something that
they want to break through?
And then we get them to write
it down on a piece of paper,
which they then wrap up
and then put into the wood.
Everybody just
connects with the fire
and connects and
watches their intention
be released and be burnt.
And then we go and take
them into the beginning
of the next part of the process.
And this is really
where we start
to share stories, both personal
stories, stories in terms
of-- so, for example, why I walk
on fire and my first connection
with the fire and what
it's done in my life,
and then, kind of,
sharing other stories.
So we'll start to
go into concepts.
We'll talk about
what fear is and why
we would want to walk on fire.
So we're really giving people
something to think about.
>> And as we we're talking about
the state that you're in when
you walk on the fire.
So this is something very
important to know is that you
cannot be intoxicated
in any way.
So you have to be of a
completely sober mind
because what you're
going to be doing
is you're going to go
deep within yourself,
within your own mind, and
go and search for that power
to overcome what is almost--
what we assume to be natural.
And for that, we need our
full faculties present.
Towards the end when
the coals are ready,
we will go back to
the runway, and we'll
start laying the ice or
the popcorn on the runway.
Ceri will pack the runway.
So we have bought
grass We bought
eight square meters,
which is a little bit more
than what we need.
But we'd like to be safe.
So we will lay the runway
straight or slightly curved
depending on the area
where we're going to walk.
Once he's laid the runway,
I will go and make sure
that it's even, that there are
no gaps or holes or anything
sticking out.
And this is all to
keep the walkers safe
and just to make
sure that everyone
is going to have a very
good experience with this.
>> So the process will take
people through beyond that is
we would get
everybody to stand up.
We would get everybody
to take their shoes off.
And then we will get
them to visualize
walking across the fire.
So we'll get everybody
to close their eyes
and imagine standing at
the front of the fire
and comfortably, not
running, not at a fast pace,
but just gently and slowly
just taking one step off
to the next, walking
across the fire,
and then getting to the other
end and actually celebrating.
Now why is celebration such
an important component?
Well, because firstly, you've
just walked across fire.
So you should celebrate.
In addition to that, any
time we've achieved something
momentous in our lives,
it's important to celebrate
because that's how we anchor it.
And once we've
anchored it, that's
something that you can draw on.
Every time you look back
on that momentous occasion,
you're going, OK, well,
that's how I actually
can move through this or conquer
this situation in my life.
So we will practice
that in the mind.
And then we'll physically
walk in the room.
There are obviously
some important things
to consider as well when
we walk across the fire.
We don't look down because
the moment we look down,
the mind is going to say,
oh, I'm walking on fire.
And therefore, I'm
supposed to get burnt
or I'm supposed
to get a blister.
So it's very important,
in the same way,
when you set a goal
and an intention,
you look at your goal.
And that's what
you walk towards.
And in the same way,
when we walk on fire,
we don't look down.
But we rather look up to where
we are-- where we are headed.
So we practice that.
And then the next
thing we'll do is
we'll go into a state
of actually raising
the vibrational frequency
because fire has
its own vibrational frequency.
And if your
vibrational frequency
is lower than that of the
fire, there is a chance
that you can injure yourself.
So by raising the
vibrational frequency,
then you can comfortably
walk across the fire.
We then have a beautiful chant.
And we progressively
will repeat the chant
over and over and over.
And as we do this, it gets
louder and more exciting
and more energetic.
And we end off with
a yes, yes, yes.
>> How we open the fire is--
actually the runway,
to start walking,
is that one of the facilitators
will usually walk first.
And this just gives the people
that are going to walk with us
the confidence that
yes, this is doable.
You know, nothing's
going to happen with me.
And I'm going to have that
same amazing feeling that I've
seen in the facilitator.
>> We'll then stop the first
person, get them into state.
So we'll say, OK, now
when you're ready,
I want you to go, yes, yes, yes.
And at the point that they
start walking, we are then
going to collectively,
as a community, we're
going to chant, ice cold, ice
cold, ice cold, because again,
we're sending messages to
the mind to say, listen,
this is not fire.
This is ice cold.
It's popcorn, or it's blocks
of ice that I'm walking across.
So everybody would be chanting,
ice cold, ice cold, ice cold.
They get to the end.
There is somebody always
waiting at the end of the runway
to receive them.
And when they receive them,
they give them a nice big hug.
They scream like mad.
They jump up and down.
And they really,
really do celebrate.
And one of the
most amazing things
as well is that by the end
of the night, invariably
95% to 100% of the people walk.
And they can't even believe
themselves that they've walked.
And once they've
walked the first time.
I always love to ask,
OK, who's walked?
Everybody puts their hands up.
And I'm like, who would
like to walk again?
And everybody puts
their hands up.
Everybody after me,
I feel great today!
>> I feel great today!
>> I feel terrific!
>> I am happy!
>> I have the power!
>> Yes, yes, yes!
>> OK, Beatrix, you're up.
You're ready?
Mr. Owl, you're at the
receiving end over there,
please, by the candles.
So guys, one thing,
guys and girls,
you might see flashes going
off from cameras, ignore it.
Stay in state.
Where do we look?
Straight ahead.
And what do we chant?
>> Ice cold, ice cold--
>> Ice cold, ice cold, ice cold!
>> Ice cold--
>> Get into state.
>> Ice cold, ice cold,
ice cold, ice cold--
>> Yes, yes, yes!
>> Ice cold, ice cold, ice cold.
>> Yes!
Celebrate!
[CHEERING]
Yes!
[WHISTLING]
>> You get into
state, yes, yes, yes.
Where do you look?
>> Ice cold, ice cold, ice cold,
ice cold, ice cold, ice cold--
>> Yes, yes, yes!
>> Ice cold, ice cold, ice cold,
ice cold, ice cold, ice cold!
[WHISTLES]
[CHEERING]
>> Step forward over here, stop.
Mr. Owl, every time you hear
the fire, it honors the rain.
I feel great today!
>> I feel great today!
>> I feel terrific!
>> I am happy!
>> I have the power!
>> Yes, yes, yes!
Ice cold, ice cold, ice cold,
ice cold, ice cold, ice cold,
ice cold, ice cold, ice
cold, ice cold, ice cold!
>> Whoa!
>> That is something.
[CHEERING]
>> They walked on fire!
Tell us--
>> Anything!
[CHEERING]
>> Well done, everybody.
We love you all!
[CHEERING]
[APPLAUSE]
We have just completed one
of the most amazing firewalks
here at Shambhala.
There was so many
things going on.
I've been at a
number of firewalks,
where the elements have,
kind of, played havoc.
And tonight was probably one
of the most intense moments
of that.
So we had, as we started
the fire, beautiful flames.
And the next thing,
the heavens opened up.
And the rain came down.
And I found myself in a moment,
almost a moment of a wavering
faith because I was like,
here I am standing alone,
tendering this fire.
And the rain is pouring
down, the wind's blowing,
and I'm like, is this
firewalk going to happen?
And in true character and
nature of believing and trusting
in the firewalk, in the process,
we asked for clear skies.
We asked for gentle breezes.
And we asked for an
ice cold healing fire.
And that's exactly what we got.
When went in to
facilitate and raise
the energy with everybody, the
heavens opened up even more.
And it poured down.
And literally, as
we finished up,
and we started to walk out to
the fire, the heavens closed.
And the rain stopped.
And we poured the
coals onto the runway.
And we got everybody into state.
And we walked.
And the most amazing thing was
everybody walked three times
and had the most
amazing experience.
And for me, it's
just such a gift
to be able to facilitate growth
and healing-- spiritual growth
and spiritual healing
in other people
through this process of fire.
>> [NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]
But I'm also known as Mr.
Owl or Owlbino.
I didn't firewalk myself.
But what I did do was
receive every single person
that did firewalk.
So earlier, while we
were preparing the space,
Ceri was very clearly
telling us about incidents
where he was able
to open up the fire
and the fire would actually
cause the rain to stop.
And then as soon as they
would close the fire,
the rain would come back.
Now as far fetched as
this felt, the storm
has been coming in for hours.
We've been feeling the
rain pouring down on us.
Everything is muddy.
Everyone's cold.
But yet, the second we
decided to step outside,
the rain stopped, generous.
I wish I was making it up.
But it's a good thing we got it
on camera because it stopped.
And then after we were
done, it came back.
So what's phenomenal
about the walk
itself is that the
serendipity of how it happened
is a very deep and
intricate story.
But essentially, the people
that facilitated it and I,
we we're meant to be
in Egypt last week.
And we're meant to go together.
And the flight got postponed
two different times
so that we could do work here.
And it's super important
and super incredible
to know that spirit is
moving with us right now.
And every single moment
we're spending here,
we're learning something new.
And people's eyes
are being opened.
And love is chasing
away, chasing away
the very concept of impossible.
And it's beautiful.
I'm loving it.
It's beautiful.
Benjie, especially, for
example, like, by the last one,
he was just, kind of, strolling.
He didn't really mind.
And it was this beautiful,
beautiful moment
of just feeling someone's
triumph over something
they thought was impossible.
And that was unthinkable.
>> I have never
walked on fire before.
But tonight, I decided
that I wanted to.
And you know what,
it was fucking great.
It was-- I don't know.
I don't know.
I'm feeling like, yeah,
feeling overwhelmed, feeling
a lot of intense emotions.
I'm feeling like
I can do anything.
I'm feeling like I can
take on all of the world.
I can take on just
all of my darkness.
And yeah, so firewalk, guys,
because you deserve to do it.
And you deserve
to feel this way.
So do it!
Whoa!
>> This is my first
time doing a firewalk.
And it felt amazing.
My intention was that I'm
releasing all fear and anxiety
I have surrounding
the birth of my baby
that I'm going to
have in six weeks.
It's a free birth.
So it's really been a lot on me.
And I feel fantastic now.
I feel fearless.
I feel free and so positive.
It was a great, great,
great experience.
[CHUCKLES]
>> I started by walking just
about two years ago when I
learned to become a
firewalking instructor.
Tonight, we hosted a
firewalk here at Shambhala.
And I walked two or
three times myself.
For me, tonight was
a very special walk
as I tended the fire
throughout the rain.
And he was so resilient
and so strong.
We ended up having
a beautiful walk.
And for me, personally,
today, the walk
was very, very special as my
intention tonight with the walk
was to take back my power and
step into a life of sobriety.
>> I've never firewalked before.
This was my first time.
It was oddly calming.
Hey, I'm going to
step onto the coals.
Just this complete sense
of calm came toward me.
And I walked slowly as I could.
I didn't feel a thing.
I think his name is Mr. Owl was
saying how serendipitous it is.
And for me, as well, I,
kind of, just wandered
through the fire earlier
because I like fires.
And then I found out we're
going to be firewalking.
And well, fate has
brought me here.
I've got to do this now.
I'm happy that I did
it and took the plunge
and didn't give into
fear, like someone else,
because I was afraid.
>> me, that's one of the most
amazing things is to watch
people go through this
process, to see the anxiety
in their being slowly dissipate
because as you're talking
to them as you're
sharing these concepts.
And these ideas with them, so
their-- you can see it's, kind
of, like the light bulbs going
on, and they're kind of going,
oh, well, maybe--
maybe I'll walk.
You see when they reach out
for the indemnity forms.
I go, OK, well, let me fill
in a form just in case.
And that's quite nice, you see.
And then when they're all
fully charged and excited,
and they walk out to the fire,
and you can, kind of, see
there's the sense of purpose.
And then when
people finally start
walking and everybody's
chanting, ice cold, ice cold,
ice cold.
And there's this
unity and this unison.
And everybody's
working together.
And they're all
supporting each other.
And then that person walks.
They get to the end.
They celebrate.
And they go a second
time and a third time.
And then everybody just
wants to hug everybody
because they've just gone
through the most amazing
transformational
process that they can't
believe that they've just done.
It's just such a gift to be able
to facilitate that development
in people's lives.
And I just really feel
blessed and honored
to be able to do that.
>> Yeah, and even afterwards
when you meet some
of the people, again, and you
see the real changes they made
in their lives just because they
went through that experience,
where they did something that
they never thought they'd be
able to do, and just
witnessing that is, like,
that's the biggest gift of all.
[MUSIC PLAYING]